# Yotei Tools Inherit Generator

This generator facilitates the inheritance of types in C# by reimplementing, in the derived type, the elements from the base one (provider) whose types are the same as that base type.

Although you can use C# 8.0 ***default interface methods*** for similar purposes, they come with their own set of drawbacks. In particular, you need to invoke them **through the interface**, not through a variable of the derived type and, because of this, casting to that derived type is really cumbersome.

The **Inherit Code Generator** is designed to provide a solution for these scenarios with a familiar syntax and in an easy way. It is not designed for *Mixin* or *Traits* scenarios, that have their own generators.

## The Scenario

For instance, let's suppose you have an interface, and a class that implements it, that provide some functionality. They, of course, must compile without errors but, otherwise, they are just regular and not decorated types that you can write as you want, and test as you need. We call them **provider** types:
```c#
public interface IFoo<T> {
    int Count { get; }
    IFoo<T> Add(T item);
}
```
```
public class Foo<T> : IFoo<T> {
    readonly List<T> _items = [];

    public int Count => _items.Count;
    public virtual Foo<T> Add(T item) {
        _items.Add(item); return this;
    }
    IFoo<T> IFoo<T>.Add(T item) => Add(item);
}
```
We now want to inherit from those types but in an easy manner, without all the overhead of having to reimplement methods and properties manually, and keeping the ability of invoking the base class as needed. To achieve that, we will decorate our types with the ```Inherit``` attribute, which will take care of it in our behalf.

## Working with Interfaces

If we apply it to an interface, as can be seen in the example, then we will then obtain the generated code that appears below:
```
[Inherit<IFoo<IGeneric>>("T")]
public partial interface IBar<T> { }
```
```
partial interface IBar<T> : IFoo<T> {
    new IBar<T> Add(T item);
}
```

Note that the decorated types must 

Since C# 8.0 the compiler supports generic attributes. In this case, the ```Inherit``` attribute is a generic one, whose generic type refers to the one being inherited.

One limitation of generic attributes is they must be fully constructed, or the compiler will complain. To overcome this limitation, we use the ```IGeneric``` type (an interface generated by the code generator), whose sole purpose in life if to permit using this construction. When the generator finds this type, or any derived from it, it will interpret that it acts as a placeholder for a generic argument. Now, to indicate the name of each generic argument, the ```Inherit``` attribute's constructor take an optional list of strings that represents the names of those generic arguments, in order.

If the type being inherited is not a generic one, then the syntax is much more simpler:

```
[Inherit<IFoo>]
public partial interface IBar { }
```

After that, the code generator noticed that the inheriting type, ```IBar<T>```, does not list ```IFoo<T>``` among the interfaces it implements, so it is added into the generated code. If the user has already done this manually, then this step will be skipped.

Finally, the code generator will analyze every public or protected method and property to find which ones may need re-implementation. The logic is that any of them have a return type, or property type, that is the same as the type being inherited, then re-implementation is needed.

Notice also that if any method or property is implemented manually, then the above step is also skipped. So, you can decide which one you inherit as such, and which ones you may need to add manual code, including calling the base class if needed.

## Working with Classes (and Records)

We can also apply the attribute to classes (and records). In this scenario, we have to differentiate the case when the inherited type is an interface, or it is itself a class (or record) providing the desired functionality.

### Inheriting a Class or Record

This is the most direct scenario (although not the most powefull one). It happens when we want just to inherit from a base class and reimplement the affected method and properties, as follows:
```
[Inherit<Foo<IGeneric>>("T")]
public partial class Bar<T> { }
```
```
partial class Bar<T> : Foo<T> {
    public override Bar<T> Add(T item) => (Bar<T>)base.Add(item);
}
```

As in the previous case, ```Foo<T>``` is added because it was not added as a base classs to ```Bar<T>```. Then, the ```Add``` method needs reimplementation because its original return type is the same as the type being inherited.

By default the code generator will emit just a cast to the host type but, again, you can implement it manually if you need more sophisticated code, and the generator will not mess with it.

### Inheriting an Interface

When a class (or record) inherits from an interface, then there is no implementation code to invoke. So, for the purposes of code generation, we are going to assume two things. Firstly, that the code that provides the functionality is either written manually, or obtained through standard inheritance, or through the ```Inherit``` attribute with an appropriate class. And secondly, that what really remains to do with the interface is to implement it explicitly.

```
[Inherit<IBar<IGeneric>>("T")]
[Inherit<Foo<IGeneric>>("T")]
public partial class Other<T> { }
```
```
partial class Other<T> : Foo<T>, IBar<T> {
    public override Other<T> Add(T item) => (Other<T>)base.Add(item);
    IBar<T> IBar<T>.Add(T item) => Add(item);
}
```
In this example we can see that the ```Inherit``` attribute is applied twice to ```Other<T>```. The first time, to implement (explicitly) the ```IBar<T>``` interface. And the second one, to inherit the functionality of the ```Foo<T>``` class.

## Final Considerations

For performance reasons the code generator does not check errors that come from inadequate inheritance. For instance, it does not intercept an interface inheriting from a class, or a class that already has a base class inheriting from another one. These constructions are not allowed in C#, will render errors, and the code generator expects the user not to use them.
